[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Questions about exercise three.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Well,
I have p1 then functions, and
then I have that under the options.
I [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle: So,
you're saying put the dot then here?
>> Speaker 2: I put it under [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle: Is that what you're saying?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] Like that?
[INAUDIBLE] Then functions, no,
this happened then, functions output.
>> Kyle: You're
saying you took this one out.
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle: You did output text.
>> Speaker 2: Yes, and
then return p2.
>> Kyle: And
then return p2 is that correct?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Kyle: Valid solution, but
that's not as promise chain oriented.
I would prefer to keep the output and
the chaining in separate places.
Separate steps to reason about.
This will functionally work, but this
isn't the style I would personally prefer.
I prefer a style where the steps
are more explicitly separate.
You wanna think about,
this is just general programming practice.
Functions should be as
single purpose as possible.
So, don't make a function that
does two entirely separate things,
outputting the response from a previous
one, and sequencing in yet another thing.
Those two tasks are separate concerns,
and they belong, in my opinion,
a separate steps in the chain.
>> Speaker 3: So,
you need to resolve the comma splice?
And then you have two then statements for
p1 there to result twice?
>> Kyle: No.
The question was, if I said somewhere
else in my program, if I had another p1.,
then logValue, for example.
So now I have two p1.then's.
I register two then handlers
on the same promise.
That's not the same thing as off the
chain, cuz this is a different promise.
But here, I have two then's handlers
registered in the same promise.
Does resolve need to get called twice?
Absolutely not.
You call resolve once, and
the promise becomes resolved to that value
immediately and forever immutable, no
matter whether you observe beforehand or
after hand, and
no matter how many times you observe it.
You're still going to get that same value.
It's exactly like with our thunks.
Every time we call the thunk, we're gonna
get that same 25 value out, for example.
So here, only one resolve, and both log
value and output would get called with
that value, as well as any future
times that we called p1.then.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: I'm a little confused about
what the output returns so
that you can chain it.
>> Kyle: Every time the then method,
this is getting a little bit
into the implementation details.
Every single time that
then method is called,
it actually does return its own promise.
So, when I chain right here on line 37,
I am chaining off a new promise that was
created and returned by that method.
That new promise is set to,
by default, be resolved immediately.
Unless the previous step returns another
promise, in which case it sort of hijacks.
That's that complicated under the cover
stuff that I said, seems simple and
it's actually pretty complex.
That part's handled for you.
So, this is automatically
chaining off of a new
promise.
>> Speaker 4: So,
what would the input to that function be?
Well, it would be-
>> Kyle: Because we don't return anything
from output.
If I returned something like, hello there,
that value that I'm
returning from that promise
would automatically get piped in and
come in here is an argument.
But since I'm not returning
anything from output, nothing goes.
>> Speaker 4: So it's undefined?
>> Kyle: Well, it's the same,
all JavaScript functions that don't have
a return are the same thing as return
undefined.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 5: They're asking,
is the function or
passing to .then the value
of result?
>> Kyle: No.
I don't understand the question, but
I know that that it's the answer is no.
>> Speaker 5: So, I think he is
asking output, what is the value of that?
>> Kyle: I need to know a line number
that somebody is asking about.
>> Speaker 5: I'm 36.
>> Kyle: Line 36.
What is the value of what?
The value of the output function, or
the value of the .then function?
>> Speaker 5: Where is the resolve
defined?
>> Kyle: Resolve is defined here.
It's passed into our promise
constructor by the promise mechanism.
All we have to do is call it.
>> Speaker 6: The previous example where
you had a p1.then with log on the result.
>> Kyle: Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 6: What's the order?
Would it execute output first or
log first?
>> Kyle: The order will be
if you have two different then's on the
same promise, which is what we have here.
Keep in mind line 39 is
not a .then on p1 anymore.
It's on a different promise entirely.
But line 38 and
line 35 are then's on the same promise.
In those cases, they go in first,
registered first, executed order.
You really should not pay any attention
to that sort of detail, though.
>> Speaker 6: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle: You really, really,
really absolutely should not.
Reason about what order something
was registered on the promise in,
not that it's not reliable, it is,
that's guaranteed by the spec.
This is terrible programming practice.
That's way back to those pre functional
programming concepts that we're talking
about where you can't understand
the state of your system,
cuz you don't see it all at once.
So, promises invite you to embrace
the idea that you are dealing with
independent things that you shouldn't.
You should not build dependency
between the resolution
of promise handlers if you can avoid it.
>> Speaker 6: Right there.
He's kind of following up on his question,
but he's, I don't see where we pass
the resolve value into the promise.
>> Speaker 5: That gives us-
>> Kyle: The resolve value,
I think maybe I'm just,
it's maybe being just,
it's hard to understand the way
the questions are being asked.
I think what's actually being asked is you
not seeing the fact that this on line 24,
this resolve function is that
CB up here in our fake AJAX.
And down here is where we're
calling the result function and
passing text in.
>> Speaker 7: And that is output.
Output is a function?
>> Kyle: No.
>> Speaker 7: No?
>> Kyle: No, no, no, no, no.
Resolve is the thing that's
getting passed into fake Ajax.
>> Kyle: Not output.
>> Speaker 4: But we're passing
the function.
>> Speaker 2: Function with
the response and resolve with response.
Does that make more sense?
On line 24?
>> Kyle: Does that make it easier to
understand?
>> Speaker 4: And
result is not output.
>> Kyle: No, result comes from the promise
constructor.
>> Kyle: This
is built into JavaScript.
>> Speaker 4: Yep.
>> Kyle: It produces a function that we
happen to call resolve.
We could call it Fubar if we wanted.
>> Speaker 4: Yep.
>> Kyle: That's coming from JavaScript,
not from us.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Kyle: Output is being passed to
the then function, which is happening
at an entirely different part of the-
>> Speaker 5: I think they might
be getting lost on the idea
of where promise comes from.
And-
>> Kyle: It's built into JavaScript.
>> Speaker 5: Right, I think that's
where he's confused here.
>> Kyle: I
don't know what else to say other than
to say it's built into JavaScript,
that's where it comes from.
>> Speaker 5: ES 6.
>> Kyle: It's built in the ES 6.
That's correct.
>> Kyle: If
one of the promises misbehaves and
fails, does it fail the whole flow?
Yes, if p1 here were to somehow reject,
then every one of these then handlers
that does not listen to the reject.
They automatically have an implied reject
handler that just simply propagates it
to the next step.
So, that rejection would propagate
all the way down the chain.
Since we never listen for the rejection,
it would sort of just sit
there waiting to be observed.
It's not really been swallowed,
it's there.
But we are not passing in a rejection
handler to listen for it.
>> Speaker 7: Is that a new rejection
as it propagates through the then's?
>> Kyle: Yes.
>> Speaker 7: So each one will get
a new one.
>> Kyle: Yes, the default
rejection handler, because we're not
passing in any rejection handlers.
The default rejection handler receives
the rejection from the previous step and
rejects.
>> Speaker 7: With the same parameter.
>> Kyle: Same value.
>> Speaker 7: Same value.
Okay.